---
layout: page
title: Candidate Statement - Yuri Khramov
permalink: /membership/elections/2018/khramov/
---

It is an honor to stand for the election of Readium Foundation Board of Directors as the representative for Evident Point Software Corporation.  The Readium Foundation has accomplished much, and hopefully, will continue to move our project forward. I would be pleased to serve as a member of the Board and continue to build on all that we have achieved as a group.Evident Point is deeply committed to the Readium Foundation and the advancement of the EPUB 3 and Open Web standards. We are actively using Readium in our product (ActiveTextbook), lead the Readium NG project, and participating in the Readium 2 development.  I worked in the digital publishing software field since 1994, and hope to use my experience and expertise to represent the companies that are developing and delivering commercial eReading software for the customers.As a member of the Board, I would seek to establish a balanced approach to the foundation roadmap, combining the interests of those who develop new technologies and those who are delivering and supporting solution to the users right now.If elected, I will serve to advance the interests of the Readium Foundation and the membership in general by introducing Readium and related technologies to our customers, participating in the work of W3C group and, when possible, speaking at the forums.#### Biography for Yuri KhramovYuri Khramov is co-founder and the chairman of the Board of Evident Point Software Corp., and has broad expertise in digital publishing, eLearning, format viewers, and eReaders. Yuri has over 30 years of experience in the software industry. He has worked at both Microsoft and Apple as a software developer and development manager. Yuri was also the co-founder of Schema Software, which was acquired by Apple in 2005. Yuri holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the State University of Management (Moscow, 1983).